The state of Art in Computational Ecology:
This summarizes the present challenges and computational difficulties in the ecology with a focus on available numerical methods.
And how context of modelling and simulation in computational ecology is different from other natural sciences.

Highlighted points
 * For a computational framework to be developed we need to have a unambigous mathematical framework for the theory, which is still being 
   developed in Ecology. In addition there is a lot noise in the field data which makes it very hard to interprete the results.
 * Unlike the other natural sciences which have developed into anlytical/inferential sciences, ecology has majorily been descriptive in nature 
  due to the sheer complexity. The development in the direction qualititative reasoning is recent and aided by the use of various numerical methods.
 * The rapid development in it becoming a simulation science is one, due to in its inability in becoming an easy experimental science( lack of controlled
  replication of experiments) and two, modelling and simulation providing a "virtual playing ground" to test theory.
 * There however two modelling approaches in development : Predictive and Conceptual. Each of them with its own challenges.
 
 **Predictive Modelling: Requires as much detail as possible to make accurate prediction.
 **Conceptual Modelling: With the aim to understand the underlying overview of the model by drawing conclusions on various relationships within.
 
 
Predictive Modelling:
Complexity in predictive modelling arises due to the web of interspecific interactions and the spatial structure.
  Studying Food Webs:
  Though it can be studied using a network model and compartmentalizing the food web herarchies, the resulting solution of a numerical method
  come with many pitfalls.
   1. The results from these nonlinear relationships bring a bifurcation space with very high senstivity to parameter values. 
   And parameter values in field studies come with high level of noise.
   2. The problem of stiffness. where high granularity(from the largest parameter) and large time interval(from the smallest parameter) result
   in large computational time.
   3. However since the relationships modelled differ from ecosystem to ecosystems, the resulting method tends to be comprehensive but hardly universal.
   
   Rest WIP
