# I missing some of the logical connections. But working on it. 
Financial regulation:



   Insufficiency of traditional economics theory with the prediction and management of collapses in financial systems and global economy.

   These phase transitions - tipping points or collapses as in other complex systems ranging from climates to ecosystems happen over a gradual loss of resilience.

   Empirical detectors of resilience developed in the studies of complex system can be used to detect and avoid these tipping points.

   ''A recent study of the Dutch interbank network showed that standard analysis using a homogeneous network model could only lead to late detection of the 2008 crisis, although a more realistic and heterogeneous network model could identify an early warning signal 3 years before the crisis."

   Modelling network topology of these bank systems rather than just looking at individual banks is very much needed to capture the systemic risk.

   Use of ABM in financial economic systems is not as prevalent as in epidemic or traffic modelling. But the results are promising.

   Example : R. Axtell, “Endogenous dynamics of multi-agent firms”. Explains 3 dozen empirical properties of firm foundations without recourse to external shocks.

   Another reason for complexity - feedback loops. Leading to trend following or herding in financial markets.

   "Monetary and fiscal policies and financial regulation designed to weaken positive feedback are successful in stabilizing experimental macroeconomic systems when properly calibrated. Complexity theory provides mathematical understanding of these effects."

   Envisioned solution : Presence of a policy dashboard encompassing data, methods and indicators to give near to real time monitoring of financial markets.



"""

Relevance of complexity to policy makers. Discuss how this outlook leads to different form of comprehension

"""



Complexity science in Public policies and planning:



   Social systems involve mutually adaptive interactions resulting in emergent patterns.

   Promise of complexity science in this domains is to use science to understand patterns involved in systems with humans and how this can be used to formulate better and wiser policy interventions.

   Features of complex systems pertinent to policy makers - Adaptability - emergence - self organization - phase transitions - non linearity - attractors - power laws.

   Systems where policy intervention devised on complex system based approach would be beneficial - Economic forecasting - environment protection - climate change - energy security - dynamics of social alienation and conflicts - epidemiology of diseases. (# mention of existing applications in these domains - Success Stories).

   Bigger picture :

       Attention on dynamical connections and evolution to just building and design of fixed institutions.

       In addition to causation and control, it also emphasizes on influence and likelihood and taking into account irreducible randomness in the system. (Probabilistic predication than fixed prediction)

       Since the cause and effect is not central but distributed, the motivation is to influence rather than control. Also tweaking is done relative to the attractor states.

        Leads to a elucidation of  what leads to the complexity in the systems and henceforth resulting in better comprehension
